prep release: v1.45.0 (#4995)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning v2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

# [1.45.0] - 2024-04-22

## 🚀 Features

### Query validation process with Rust ([PR #4551](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4551))

The router has been updated with a new Rust-based query validation process using `apollo-compiler` from the `apollo-rs` project. It replaces the Javascript implementation in the query planner. It improves query planner performance by moving the validation out of the query planner and into the router service, which frees up space in the query planner cache. 

> Because validation now happens earlier in the router service and not in the query planner, error paths in the query planner are no longer encountered. The new error messages should be clearer.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how I'd write this, but I would like it to be explicit that users may see some *changed* error messages (which is currently implied by saying "new error messages", but still)

Maybe even
```suggestion
Because validation now happens earlier in the router service and not in the query planner, error paths in the query planner are no longer encountered. Some messages in error responses to invalid queries are now clearer.
```
to keep it positive but to emphasise that there is a change.

not a dealbreaker i think anyway.

Author: I applied a small variation of your suggestion.  Thank you!

To configure subgraph batching, you can enable `batching.subgraph.all` for all subgraphs. You can also enable batching per subgraph with `batching.subgraph.subgraphs.*`. For example:

```yaml
batching:
  enabled: true
  mode: batch_http_link
  subgraph:
    # Enable batching on all subgraphs
    all:
      enabled: true
```

```yaml
batching:
  enabled: true
  mode: batch_http_link
  subgraph:
    # Disable batching on all subgraphs
    all:
      enabled: false
    # Configure (override) batching support per subgraph
    subgraphs:
      subgraph_1:
        enabled: true
      subgraph_2:
        enabled: true
```

Note: `all` can be overridden by `subgraphs`. This applies in general for all router subgraph configuration options.

To learn more, see [query batching in Apollo docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/executing-operations/query-batching/).

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4661

## 🐛 Fixes

> ### Update `rustls` to v0.21.11 to latest v0.21.x patch ([PR #4993](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4993))

Reviewer 2: Saying "to" twice is redundant
```suggestion
### Update `rustls` to v0.21.11 ([PR #4993](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4993))
```

Reviewer 2: Alternatively:
```suggestion
### Update `rustls` to v0.21.11, the latest v0.21.x patch ([PR #4993](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4993))
```

While the Router **does** use `rustls`, [RUSTSEC-2024-0336] (also known as [CVE-2024-32650] and [GHSA-6g7w-8wpp-frhj]) **DOES NOT affect the Router** since it uses `tokio-rustls` which is specifically called out in the advisory as **unaffected**.

Despite the lack of impact, we update `rustls` version v0.21.10 to [rustls v0.21.11] which includes a patch.

[RUSTSEC-2024-0336]: https://rustsec.org/advisories/RUSTSEC-2024-0336.html
[CVE-2024-32650]: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2024-32650
[GHSA-6g7w-8wpp-frhj]: https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-6g7w-8wpp-frhj
[rustls v0.21.11]: https://github.com/rustls/rustls/releases/tag/v%2F0.21.11

By [@tninesling](https://github.com/tninesling) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4993

### Performance improvements for Apollo usage report field generation ([PR 4951](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4951))

The performance of generating Apollo usage report signatures, stats keys, and referenced fields has been improved.

By [@bonnici](https://github.com/bonnici) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4951

> ### Apply alias rewrites to arrays ([PR #TODO](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4958))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Apply alias rewrites to arrays ([PR #4958](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4958))
```

Author: Good eye on both of your finds.  Fixed/Thanks!
